So this is a question I get a lot.
I get a ton on Twitter or
people talking about and happy hour.
They say what do I do if I
have little to no experience?
Now, what would you recommend?
We all started somewhere.
That is one thing we all share.
How did you get your foot in
the door at the first job?
Anybody, this is an open question.
Yeah?
>> I applied to a QA position.
And then I kind of worked my way
into more of a development position.
That worked for me.
>> That's a great path.
I didn't even think of that, yeah.
If you have no experience in UI,
is someone gonna you as a UI engineer?
Maybe, maybe.
But is another way of just applying for
a different role and
then working your way into that?
That's a very effective role.
I've seen people do it themselves.
Move from office manager
to sales to QA to engineer.
Why not?
The easiest way to get a new job is to
stay at your same company, just keep
moving sideways, or move up or down,
wherever you want.
That's a great tip.
Yes?
>> In the early days, I just knew
everybody was gonna take advantage of me,
so I just built a bunch of sites for
local businesses and just like for
way under cost.
But then, the future people didn't
know how much those people paid.
So I would charge them a more fair
price and every time getting money for
the next project.
>> That's a good-
>> I started with just getting
taken advantage of.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But then, eventually just charged
higher and higher prices until
I was getting really good pay.
>> You two have suggestions
I didn't even think of yet.
Yes, start out freelancing on the side.
Charge low rates, someone will hire you.
I'll say a warning about freelancing.
It's not as glamorous as you may think.
You're like I do cool code and
I get to build something new every day and
people pay me for that.
No, as anybody who has
freelanced will tell you,
it's not necessarily that pleasant.
But if you find the right person,
the right client,
you can really work together.
And if they say this person's
a good engineer, you're like well,
I'm looking for steady work.
You're hired.
We don't have to interview you cuz
we've seen the work you have done.
That's a great path to getting in if
you don't have that much
professional experience.
>> It's s mostly a means to an end.
>> Yeah, that's a great example.
Any any other suggestions?
These are good.
These are questions that
I get all the time.
So these are really helpful.
I know a lot of people say you should have
a robust GitHub with a ton of examples.
Yeah, you should.
But that's not gonna help
you get noticed by anybody.
You may think people are constantly
trolling GitHub for wow, this person's so
smart, look at this algorithm they
implemented, or this is a really cool UI.
Probably not as much.
What I recommend is, yeah, have a GitHub,
have something on there that shows you
can code, and shows your style of coding.
And then, join Twitter.
Post out some of the things you do.
Post it in a code pen and say here's
this animation of me doing cool stuff.
I can't guarantee you that's gonna land
you a job, but it'll get you noticed.
Another thing I'd say is what
you absolutely have to do is you
have to network.
I know.
When I was in college, I'm like,
I'm so smart, I got a CS degree,
everybody's gonna hire me.
And then nothing.
Because who was I?
I was just another college graduate.
But what I did was, I made friends.
I got my first job via my roommate
because he had a position at the startup
he was at.
And he's like hey, they're looking for
a junior part-time person.
And were they taking advantage
of me with very low pay?
Probably.
But did I care?
No, it got me experience,
it got me in the door, and
it got something on my resume
that I can tell people about.
And that's another Jim tip.
Don't swing for
the fences on the first job.
You have no experiences.
You may have heard people at Google or
LinkedIn or
FrontendMasters getting paid $200,000 a
year or something as front end engineers.
That's not gonna be your first time out.
Unless you are truly exceptional and
get really, really, really lucky.
You're probably gonna take a pretty
low pay when you start off.
That's just the nature
of having no experience.
But make sure you take advantage
of the people around you.
Leverage the time to learn.
Leverage all the knowledge and
things you can get out of this job.
Yes?
>> Online, there's a few suggestions.
Personal projects,
contributing to open source, and
volunteering coding for an NGO.
>> Yeah, those are all solid, too.
My only issue with people saying yeah,
have a GitHub, contribute to open source,
and all these things, is you have to
leverage that into a job somehow.
Otherwise you're kind of doing work.
The strongest one I always
recommend is networking.
Network, network, network.
It's unpleasant, they don't teach
it to you in college, they should.
But you have to know
people who know people.
And just make friends.
It just shows you the type
person they wanna work with.
How I got my job at Netflix was
I was working at a start up and
I applied to a conference, and I got in.
And then, I gave a talk on React,
ES6, and doesn't really matter.
But it turns out, my future boss
was there at the conference.
Like hey, I wanna talk to this guy.
He seems like a personable person.
You can tell my personality
by how I give talks.
And then, that turned into an application,
and that turned into a job eventually.
So go to conferences,
go to meetups, talk to people.
And network, network, network, network.
In fact, real story, and
I have plenty of real stories.
Part of the preparation for this workshop
is I applied for jobs at places.
I didn't get reached out from recruiters.
I just tried to, with my resume and
the things I've done, and my talks and
workshops and all that,
I applied for jobs.
Do you know how many
people responded to me?
Zero, nobody.
I applied for a job at Amazon.
They never got back to me.
And I'm not saying I'm
the world's greatest engineer.
Probably not even saying the world's
second greatest engineer.
Third?
Maybe, no.
The fact is they get thousands and
thousands of people.
And if you don't match whatever
their algorithm or criteria is,
you're probably just
gonna get passed over.
So the real way to do it
is to make friends or
just follow someone who
works at Amazon on Twitter.
And then eventually you
have a interaction.
And I don't mean this to be manipulative,
but
establish a genuine
interaction with people.
And then, say hey,
you got me open rules, I'm looking?
And almost everybody will help you out.
Anybody that's ever asked for
a referral to Netflix,
I've never not helped them out.
It's not really gonna help you
[LAUGH] that's not the way we work.
But I will always help you out.
I think most people will in the community.
We're all generally good people.
We understand what it's like
to try to find a new job.
So I'll say that again.
Network, network, meet-ups, and talks.
Yes, that's what you should
do if you have no experience.
And also have a web page.
I need to know what you can do.
And this last piece of advice is a bit
distasteful for me, cuz I'm not a fan.
But I talk to a lot of hiring managers,
and
they said you need to
have a LinkedIn profile.
And it should list where you've worked and
what are your skills.
You have to.
That's one of the primary ways they find
people is LinkedIn.
This is my personal opinion,
I'm not too wild about it,
the interface is kind of clunky.
But these are things we have
to do as professionals.
So have a LinkedIn profile,
have a webpage, and network.
Yes?
>> So maybe, I guess it's
a question what do you do with
experience that you have
that's not CS related?
Is there a way to work it
into your application?
>> Yes, and that's-
>> Or do you just ignore it completely?
>> No, no, that's a great question.
What I put, and you can see it even on
my resume, is I have a lot of experience
from my previous life before
being a software engineer.
So I list my professional
experience there.
So that means it's not it's not entirely
encompassing of everything I've ever done.
But when you sit down with someone and
you say hey,
do you have experience managing people,
you're like yes, I did.
I managed people at a theme park
through college for a couple of years.
So work it in there.
But on your LinkedIn, probably leave out
the less relevant experience unless you
really feel it's critical.